Hello everybody.
Welcome back.
Today we're going to finalize the process by building the correlation matrix.
As you may remember the correlation matrix is a plot to show us the correlations between all of the
independent fields with each other.
We have build this coalition which would be four.
And so we're going to leverage that and just use the same code with small minor changes.
So let's see how it works.
This is a code for the correlation which is again this is just you want to create a white background
here on this line.
Then we build a correlation matrix which is then the moment correlations of every single field in the
data set.
Now we have to remove Of course there are fields that are not useful for the correlation matrix.
In this case you are going to be like normal the user identifier and the response variable which is
everything else can work just fine.
The correlation is.
Now next we're going to mass the upper triangle which like I mentioned previously used is just the top
right of the triangle.
Given that there's a correlation matrix in this triangle is the metric.
So we need that top right when we need one half of it.
Then we plot of course each of the individual correlations which is each of the squares in the correlation
Meijers then we give it a particular color palette of our choosing.
Again this is something that you guys can just as you like.
I would recommend just copy and page and see how it looks in your computer and then it depending on
what your resolution is.
Finally we have a heat map which shows the entire map where all our creative fields are used on.
And that's about it.
So it's time to see what the correlation to return so we can try and find something useful in this block.
Great.
So this looks beautiful like always.
This is my favorite matrix.
So let's look of all the squares right here.
Obviously the best case scenario would be that every single field is independent of each other.
And as a result all of these right here will be on the zero marker on this here meaning that they are
not really whatsoever at least not linearly related but that is that some of them are highly highly
that if you read which which is OK because if we look at the like on the right side we're going to see
that the highest rate it's available in this particular chart is only around 0.2 meaning that the strongest
relationship in this matrix is no longer that 2.2 2.3.
Not any more than that.
Now for the blue sky the Naini relationship you see that the correlation goes all the way down to negative
zero point eight meaning that the strongest correlation available in this block is actually quite high.
So let's see which one that is.
Obviously if you just look at the platypi obviously tell that it's that big blue square here in the
center and it shows us the relationship between.
Let's see which column is the relationship between the entry you are right here and the IO as you see
here in the Bible is very strong which makes a lot of sense.
Why is that.
Well if you're an Android user you are not going to be in Iowa.
So for the majority of the time this is going to be one to one.
Meaning that whenever you're on one of the Android you're a zero on the iOS.
OK.
Now this correlation is not exactly one to one.
Oh that was like to say that because there's going to be very few users who own both in iOS devices
and incendiary device and then maybe some users who own a third party type of device that I'm not familiar
with.
And as a result both of these will be zero.
So it is not exactly correlated.
So how do we deal with these particular fields.
Well because the correlation is strong you will be better for us to remove one of them because this
is what's in that and I emphasize almost because like I said it's not one to one.
This is almost as having a call for male users and female users.
Obviously if you're not part of the female user base you're going to fall in the Melk category for most
distributions.
So in those cases we only need one column meaning that is male or female.
And then by that column being negative it indicates that the other ones will be positive.
So we still have not lost the value of that knowledge by removing that column because the column is
just kind of fodder.
Knowledge is nothing.
It's not bringing anything new.
This coalition which has helped us to really see that there is a strong correlation here and we should
remove it.
So this is the biggest failure.
Of course we can look in the Red Square and we can make some assumptions for example if we look at history
for the very last row in the correlation matrix is very strongly correlated with the purchase call them.
But like I mentioned before the read is not very strong.
So no matter how strong this looks it's not going to be more than point to five.
And the correlation again we cannot really gauge Why is it fair leads to more purchases.
So that is something that can be very informative.
But we never take action on the same thing before CC application being in here in the top.
The application has a lot of different correlations with multiple fields because all of these entire
row of them are going into Iraq is quite strong ish read and that means that the application begin is
related to the policies that we drolls the purchases both in and out of the partner stores as well as
a credit card taking credit card command and so on and so forth.
So this could be a very related field that we would want to give it in the future.
But like I said for a month many times already the correlation for rent is not as strong.
So we can do it now before we finish this year.
There's one more thing I want to point out and that is one full here that doesn't show a correlation
but it is quarterly and that is what user.
Now if you go here to usurp the very middle you're going to realize one thing and you could have realized
this before and that is where the user is only one when both where user and up downloaded are one.
OK.
So this field is a function of these two other fields.
So that may set in not an independent variable because we want independent variables we should not be
using just feel.
So we can get rid of one of them.
Know we're both by the best use for me for my preferences is to just get rid of these feel.
Now this is not something the coalition may choose not to see.
So this is a good point to make that correlation matrix not going to show us all that correlations immediately
but it will sound like we did in the blue case but this is something that you can do by just observing
the data and kind of making your own conclusions.
And that is the point of the point of the it is for you to be sure the data in many different ways and
that start quitting in your mind.
Things can start making sense you start making trends and correlations in your head and then you start
understanding backwards and forwards.
After seen so many blasts of the same data set.
You can feel very familiar with the data you're working with and you can feel very confident of the
result that you're going to bring in when you build your model.
Well we're done with E-D process.
The last thing I want to do is remove these underscore wave underscore call column that we just decided.
So we're going to do so by simply removing this from our dataset with the truckle command column he
calls where user exit.
So we run this and that works and we're finished.
We're completely finished.
So now we're ready to say this dataset on a new set because we just want to reload this new data set
is clean data set whenever we're building the model and we have to run all of these coding.
So if this finalized our idiot process by saving our results to see as be great this is going through
his so we're going to call the new the new church.
And of course every time we say these things that we give out of the index because we don't have.
If you want to keep it that's fine.
But there's only four cases and we say this and we're done.
That is it.
You guys have finalized the EPA process.
I'm very happy to have shown you all of these charts and I know this is a lot of buildup for a model
building process.
But trust me it will make you feel so much more comfortable with all of your work.
It will help you answer a lot of those questions that normally on the meeting in industry will make
you feel like I don't know.
That's definitely something that you want a boy when you're talking to somebody when they ask you what
are the state I mean how does this feel related to these other one.
And if you have no answers you're the data department then there is a problem there and you should fix
it.
So thank you very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video.